All right so let's go ahead and get started on our bootstrap theme for wordpress.
What I have here is just a default installation of Wordpress I haven't touched anything I haven't created
any posts or anything like that.
All right so are starting from scratch here I have the Sublime Text and in the sidebar I have my Word
Press installation and you can see in the themes folder we have just the default themes.
So what I'm going to do now is going to create a new folder in the themes folder and we're going to
call this template word strap.
OK first thing we're going to create is the style dot CSSA file.
Whoops don't want to do that.
And this also acts kind of like a manifest file.
You need to put in our comments up here.
All right.
So let's go ahead and add a theme name
and we want to call this word strap and see we don't need that.
Next thing we the author put my name in you can put your own name and it's too off or you or I
will just say you want to start com what else description.
I'll say simple to strap theme for word press.
OK let's do version this'll be version 1.0.
And I think that should be good.
All right so let's save that and then let's create an index file
.
All right.
Now it should be able to show under themes.
Now go to parents and then.
You can see we have this word strap.
Now I do have a screen shot file so I'm going to paste that in the theme folder.
OK you can find this in your project files.
Very simple.
Let's go ahead and reload.
OK.
Very simple.
We just have the word word strap.
OK it looks it looks all right.
So what we want to do now let's go into index ph P and put some base HTL tags in here.
So for the title there's a word strap.
We're going to need boot straps.
Let's go ahead and get that for you go to get bootstrapped dot com and we'll go ahead and download it
.
They will open up the zip file.
And let's also open up our theme folder and what we want to do here
is we want to create a CSSA folder.
And we're going to bring bootstrap got CSSA over.
All right.
And then we'll also create a JSE folder and we're going to bring over bootstrap.
Yes.
OK.
So close that up.
Now let's go back into index ph P and we're going to have to include a couple link tags so let's say
link Raul Kikuyus style sheet and let's see href.
Now we want to go in the CSSA folder and then
bootstrap Dart's the access.
Right.
We also want to make sure we include the main style sheet.
Now to do that to strike gives us a function we can use.
OK so say style sheet.
And then.
OK this is where we can use we can put in some ph p tags and we're going to say blog info in here we
just want to put in a style sheet underscore you Arel.
All right.
And then I'll bring all the system style sheets.
Now what I want to do is grab a nav bar so on the bootstrap Web site let's go to.
Where is it components in the nav bar.
And say let's grab this or we're going to take the whole thing here copy and let's put that in the body
.
Save it and let's see what we have.
OK we'll go to our front end.
Oh I didn't.
And inactivate So it's going to be the theme.
All right.
Now the reason that it looks like this is because it's not seeing the bootstrap CSSA file.
All right if we look at the source code you can see it's just looking in slashy SS bootstrap but this
file is actually in the theme folder.
So what we need to do is go back to index P2P And let's go up here.
Get rid of that dot and we're going to say ph P the log info and in here we want to pass in template
underscore directory.
OK.
And then we'll add that each tag.
And that's going to go inside of our template directory and then in CSSA so save that go back.
And now it's working ok so we want to change this now bar a little bit.
Let's go down to the nav tag here.
And I just want to indent this
.
All right.
Now we're going to dumb this down quite a bit.
So starting at the top.
First thing we're going to do is get rid of the fluid.
I want this to just be container.
OK we'll get rid of the comments.
We don't need that.
And then we have this now our head our class.
Let's see this button.
This is for responsiveness.
So when it's on a mobile or just a smaller screen in general will have a button that we can click that
will then show the menu.
So we're going to leave all that stuff for the brand.
Let's change that.
Let's change that to word Strout.
It's actually you know what let's not do words.
Let's make this dynamic we want it to reflect whatever we have as the site name and in wordpress.
All right so let's see we're going to do each p blog info and then and here we just want to pass in
the name right.
And for the draft for the length let's say ph P blog info.
Here we want to put in you are l
right now this down here is where we're going to implement the W.P. Now Walker class.
So what are you going to do is just get rid of this whole UL
age just like that and then we have our form this is going to be the search form and it's going to be
pretty much completely redone so I'm going to take out everything that's in the form tags
which ends right here.
All right so we get that and then we're going to take out this whole you will as well.
All right so we're left with just this.
OK.
So this is the the entire Nav..
So we'll hold off just for now with that let's see what that looks like.
OK so it's very basic.
We just have our branding.
We'll do the will implement the walk or nav or the nav Walker in the next video.
But let's just continue on with some of the base some of the basic CML.
Next thing we're going to do is we're going to go under where the nav ends and we're going to create
the div and let's give it a class of container and also index.
All right.
And then here we're going to have a row.
OK we're going to use bootstraps grid system
so we have a row and inside there we're going to have a column
say call Amedee 8.
So that'll be in a column div..
And we're also going to have a 4 column divs going to copy that.
And we're just going to change that to a 4.
This will be the side bar.
So inside the 8 column div we're going to have a panel.
So say class equals panel and souls sake panel default
pay and then inside that we're going to have the panel heading
right in the panel heading we'll have an H three we'll give it a class of panel title
and for the text we're going to say blog posts.
I'm not sure why this isn't indenting automatically It used to.
OK so that's our panel title.
Now we want to go under the heading div and then put the body.
So we want div class and the panel body.
So in here is where we're going to have our post loop.
So it's a PH p.
If we're going to do if have hosts
if have posts use the shorthand syntax
and then we're going to put in a while.
So say while
have hosts
we're going to go like that and say the underscore host
.
Let's do our and while
now we're going to have two columns here we're going to have one for the image and then one for all
the data.
All right.
So let's put in a class called row and then we're going to do div class.
So we call and the three
will just say image here
and then we'll have our nine columns.
So we call em the nine.
And in here it was put in the title say ph.
He actually put this in an H to
THP echo the underscore title
save that.
OK so here you can see we have our three column div where the image will go.
And then our 9 column with the content.
So we'll get back to adding all the content there in a little bit.
But let's continue on and add the side bar code here.
OK.
Now this is going to be a widget area.
So what we need to do is create a function that BHP file and we need to register the widgets we want
which will be just the sidebar.
So right here what we'll do is let's say ph P and then we're going to see if there is actually a widget
active here.
So if it is under score active underscore sidebar and then we need the actual digit position which will
be side bar
.
And then here what we'll do is say H-P dynamic underscore side bar OK.
We also need the position which will be side bar OK it doesn't have to be called so I can call it whatever
you like.
All right so save that and let's add the footer real quick.
OK so underneath we want to go under the row actually actually I want to go under the whole container
.
All right.
And what we want to do is we want to create another container
.
All right.
And let's put the horizontal rule here and then we want our footer tags
.
Inside the footer will have a paragraph and let's to a copyright
All right.
Now I also want to include two things we want.
Jay Querrey and we want the bootstrap javascript file.
OK.
We're going to put our javascript's right here and actually get a piece and paste in the J.
Querrey which is just going to be the CD and
also paste in the bootstrap J as.
Now we're using this blog info template directory just like we did with the CSSA file.
All right so let's save that and reload and they use the wrong symbol for the copyright.
They should actually be an ampersand.
All right.
So I think before we end this part what I want to do is split this up into a header in a folder file
.
In addition to index pupae so in index P We're going to grab from the very top down to the end of the
nav so right here.
OK we're going to cut that and let's create a new file called hetter dot ph P tops.
I keep doing that hetter dot ph P piece that n save it and then it's place inside index ph P We're going
to open up a set of p p tags and we're going to say get the score higher.
All right so that should look the exact same which it does.
And then we're going to do the same thing with Forder.
We're going to grab from this container down to the very bottom or cut that out and create a footer
file
and paste it and save it and then an index ph p.
We just want to say get underscore for k.
Now that should look the exact same good.
So that clean thing things up a little bit in the next video we will work on the post-K this post roll
right here.
Make that look a little better.
We're going to include the meditator and all that.
All right so I will see you in the next video